## Exercise 00 – Tables & Entities
Throughout this week, we will be implementing Chat functionality. In this chat, user can create or choose an existing chatroom. Each chatroom can have several users exchanging messages.
Key domain models which both SQL tables and Java classes must be implemented for are:
User
- User ID
- Login
- Password
- List of created rooms
- List of chatrooms where a user socializes

Chatroom
- Chatroom id
- Chatroom name
- Chatroom owner
- List of messages in a chatroom

Message
- Message id
- Message author
- Message room
- Message text
- Message date/time

Database Schema and Data

The schema.sql file contains the SQL operations to create tables for the project, while the data.sql file includes text data INSERTS for each table.
Additional Requirements

- Implementation of one-to-many and many-to-many link types for relational links.
- Use of numeric identifiers generated by the DBMS.
- Redefinition of equals(), hashCode(), and toString() inside Java classes.
- Project Structure

- Chat
  - src
    - main
      - java
        - edu.school21.chat
          - models - domain knowledge models
      - resources
        - schema.sql
        - data.sql
  - pom.xml
  
## Exercise 01 – Read/Find
Data Access Object (DAO, Repository) is a popular design template that allows to separate key business logic from data handling logic in an application.
Let's assume that we have an interface called CoursesRepository which provides access to course lessons
You need to implement MessagesRepository with a SINGLE Optional<Message> findById(Long id) method and its MessagesRepositoryJdbcImpl implementation.
This method shall return a Message object where author and chatroom will be specified. In turn, there is NO NEED to enter subentities (list of chatrooms, chatroom creator, etc.) for the author and the chatroom.
The implemented code must be tested in Program.java class.
```$ java Program
Enter a message ID
-> 5
Message : {
id=5,
author={id=7,login=“user”,password=“user”,createdRooms=null,rooms=null},
room={id=8,name=“room”,creator=null,messages=null},
text=“message”,
dateTime=01/01/01 15:69
} 
```
Exercise project structure:
- Chat
    - src
        - main
            - java
                - edu.school21.chat
                    - models - domain knowledge models
                    - repositories
                    - app
                      - Program.java
            - resources
                - schema.sql
                - data.sql
    - pom.xml

MessagesRepositoryJdbcImpl shall accept DataSource interface of java.sql package as a constructor parameter. For DataSource implementation, use HikariCP library—a pool of connections to the database which considerably expedite the use of storage.

## Exercise 02 – Create/Save
Now you need to implement save(Message message) method for MessagesRepository.
Thus, we need to define the following subentities for the entity we are saving—a message author and a chatroom. It is also important to assign IDs that exist in the database to chatroom and author.
So, save method shall assign ID value for the incoming model after saving data in the database. If author and room have no ID existing in the database assigned, or these IDs are null, throw Runtimeexception NotSavedSubEntityException (implement this exception on your own).
Test the implemented code in Program.java class.

## Exercise 03 – Update
Now we need to implement update method in MessageRepository. This method shall fully update an existing entity in the database. If a new value of a field in an entity being updated is null, this value shall be saved in the database.

## Exercise 04 – Find All
Now you need to implement UsersRepository interface and UsersRepositoryJdbcImpl class using a SINGLE List<User> findAll(int page, int size) method.
This method shall return size—users shown in the page with page number. This "piecewise" data retrieval is called pagination. Thus, DBMS divides the overall set into pages each containing size entries. For example, if a set contains 20 entries with page = 3 and size = 4 , you retrieve users 12 to 15 (user and page numbering starts from 0).
The most complicated situation in converting relational links into object-oriented links happens when you retrieve a set of entities along with their subentities. In this task, each user in the resulting list shall have included dependencies—a list of chatrooms created by that user, as well as a list of chatrooms the user participates in.
Each subentity of the user MUST NOT include its dependencies, i.e. list of messages inside each room must be empty.
The implemented method operation should be demonstrated in Program.java.
Notes:
- findAll(int page, int size) method shall be implemented by a SINGLE database query. It is not allowed to use additional SQL queries to retrieve information for each user.
- We recommend using CTE PostgreSQL.
- UsersRepositoryJdbcImpl shall accept DataSource interface of java.sql package as a constructor parameter.